# What's in Big Data Applications and Systems?

## Introduction

So we will start by introducing you to where big data comes from and what kinds
of things you can do with it.

We'll also provide an overview of some of the key characteristics of big data
and a short summary of the data science process to get value out of big data.

Finally, we'll summarize the components of Hadoop for big data, and provide
some hands on activities to make yourself familiar with some of these components.

## By the end of this course you will be able to

* Describe the Big Data landscape including examples of real world big data problems and approaches.

* Identify the high level components in the data science lifecycle and associated data flow.

* Explain the V’s of Big Data and why each impacts the collection, monitoring, storage, analysis and reporting, including their impact in the presence of multiple V’s.

* Identify big data problems and be able to recast problems as data science questions.

* Summarize the features and significance of the HDFS file system and the MapReduce programming model and how they relate to working with Big Data.

## What makes big data valuable

* Personalized marketing

* Recomendations Engines

* Sentiment Analysis (Product review)

  * Natural language processing

* Mobile Advertising

  * Customer Profile + Recent purchases

  * Geolocation - spacial big data

* Consumer Growth to Guide Product Growth

  * Collective Consumer Behavoir

* Biomedical Applications

  * Personalized Medicine

    * Personalized Cancer Treatment

* Big Data-Driven Cities

  * Smart City

## What application area interests you?

## Saving lives with Big Data

wildfire

**Prediction and Response**

 * People
 * Sensors
 * Organizations

## Using Big Data to Help Patients

## Where Does Big Data Come From?

- Machines, People and Organizations
- Sensor
- Social media data (twitters, photos)

## Machine-Generated Data: It's Everywhere and There's a Lot!

### Smart devices
* Connect to other devices/networks
* Collect and analyze data autonomously
* Provide environmental contexts

## Machine-Generated Data: Advantages

## Big Data Generated By People: The Unstructured Challenge

- Social Medias (Facebook, Instagram, Youtube)
- Blog
- Mobile SMS
- Email

Not defined data model

## Big Data Generated By People: How Is It Being Used?

Hadoop is designed to support the processing of large data sets in a
distributed computing environment.

Spark and Storm are open source framework that handle such real time data generated
at a fast rate.

ETL: Extract Transform Load

NoSQL Data Storage in the Cloud

## Organization-Generated Data: Structured but often siloed

## Organization-Generated Data: Benefits Come From Combining With Other Data Types